.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Alessandro Menti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" Or try here: http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html
.\"
.TH FGFSRC 5 2017-05-28 FlightGear "FlightGear man pages"
.SH NAME
fgfsrc \- FlightGear command-line options file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fgfsrc
is a file containing command-line options read by
.BR fgfs (1)
at startup. This file is meant for those people who do not use a graphical
launcher to run the simulator, so that they will be able to specify most
preferences that do not change often there (for example, custom
scenery/aircraft locations or screen size options), and only those frequently
modified (like the starting airport) on the command line.

The file must be in plain-text format and ASCII-encoded. It must contain one or
more command-line options listed in
.BR fgfs (1);
each option must be given on a separate line.

If the first non-whitespace character in a line is an octothorpe (\fB#\fR),
.BR fgfs (1)
treats the line as a comment and ignores it. Comments should not be added after
an option, because that might cause the simulator to fail under some conditions
(notably, when the command-line argument given on the line is of the form
\fB\-\-prop=\fR).

Variables in paths, like
.B $HOME
or \fB$FG_HOME\fR, are not expanded.
.SH FILES
.IP "\fI~/.fgfsrc.hostname\fR, \fI~/.fgfsrc\fR" 4
Configuration files containing command-line options for
.BR fgfs (1).
The simulator parses command-line arguments first, then
\fI~/.fgfsrc.hostname\fR (where
.I hostname
is the hostname of the machine) and then \fI~/.fgfsrc\fR, if they exist, in
that order.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example configuration file synchronizes the simulator clock with
the local real-world time, loads real-world weather data, sets the window size
to 1024x768 and enables random scenery objects and AI traffic:

.nf
\-\-time\-match\-local
\-\-enable\-real\-weather\-fetch
\-\-geometry=1024x768
\-\-enable\-random\-objects
\-\-enable\-ai\-traffic
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fgfs (1)
