.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Cameron Moore
.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Alessandro Menti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" Or try here: http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html
.\"
.TH FGJS 1 2017-06-04 FlightGear "FlightGear man pages"
.SH NAME
fgjs \- FlightGear joystick utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfgjs\fR [\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-\-fg\-root=\fIrootdir\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fgjs
is a joystick utility for the FlightGear flight simulator which allows you to
generate a configuration file for your joystick interactively.

To use it, launch the program with your joystick(s) connected. The utility will
first prompt you to move each joystick around in the \fIdead band\fR, that is,
the area where it is centered and should not generate any input. Afterwards,
you will be asked to move the control/push the button you would like to use for
each function.

The configuration will be saved in the current working directory in several
files named \fIjsI.xml\fR, where \fII\fR is the progressive number assigned to
each detected joystick. You will need to move them to
.I ~/.fgfs/Input/Joysticks
for them to be used by FlightGear.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-fg\-root=\fIrootdir\fR
Set the FlightGear data root directory (\fB$FG_ROOT\fR) to \fIrootdir\fR.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "\fBFG_ROOT\fR" 4
If
.B FG_ROOT
is set and
.B \-\-fg\-root
is not set, it specifies the root data directory to use.
.SH FILES
.IP "\fI~/.fgfsrc.hostname\fR, \fI~/.fgfsrc\fR" 4
Configuration files containing command-line options for
.BR fgfs (1).
The
.B \-\-fg\-root
command-line option is searched there if it is not passed as a command-line
argument to \fBfgjs\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fgfs (1),
.BR js_demo (1),
.UR http://\:wiki.flightgear.org/\:Joystick
the FlightGear wiki "Joystick" page
.UE
