.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Alessandro Menti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" Or try here: http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html
.\"
.TH FGVIEWER 1 2017-06-25 FlightGear "FlightGear man pages"
.SH NAME
fgviewer \- An alternative FlightGear viewer application
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfgviewer\fR [\fB\-\-fg\-root\fR \fIrootdir\fR]
[\fB\-\-fg\-scenery\fR \fIscenerydir\fR] [\fB\-\-config\fR \fIconfigfile\fR]
[\fB\-\-prop\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIvalue\fR] [\fB\-\-renderer\fR \fIrend\fR]
[\fB\-\-hla\fR] [\fB\-\-federation\fR \fIfed\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fgviewer
is a viewer application that allows you to examine FlightGear scenery and
objects without starting
.BR fgfs (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-fg\-root\fR \fIrootdir\fR
Set the FlightGear data root directory (\fB$FG_ROOT\fR) to \fIrootdir\fR. If
this option is not set,
.B fgviewer
uses the path specified in the
.B FG_ROOT
environment variable or, absent that, the FlightGear data directory chosen at
the time the program was compiled.
.TP
\fB\-\-fg\-scenery\fR \fIscenerydir\fR
Set the FlightGear scenery directory (\fB$FG_SCENERY\fR) to \fIscenerydir\fR.
If this option is not set,
.B fgviewer
uses the path specified in the
.B FG_SCENERY
environment variable or, absent that, the
.B Scenery
subdirectory inside \fB$FG_ROOT\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-config\fR \fIconfigfile\fR
Read configuration directives from \fIconfigfile\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-prop\fR \fIproperty\fR \fIvalue\fR
Set the property named \fIproperty\fR to \fIvalue\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-renderer\fR \fIrend\fR
Use the renderer named \fIrend\fR to render the scenery. This option is
currently not supported.
.TP
\fB\-\-hla\fR
Enable HLA federation.
.TP
\fB\-\-federation\fR \fIfed\fR
Enable a custom federation named \fIfed\fR.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B fgviewer
exits with
.B EXIT_SUCCESS
on success, with
.B EXIT_FAILURE
if the syntax of the command-line arguments is wrong or an error occurs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "\fBFG_ROOT\fR" 4
If
.B FG_ROOT
is set and
.B \-\-fg\-root
is not set, it specifies the root data directory to use.
.IP "\fBFG_SCENERY\fR" 4
If
.B FG_SCENERY
is set and
.B \-\-fg\-scenery
is not set, it specifies the scenery directory to use.
.SH FILES
.IP "\fI$FG_ROOT/defaults.xml\fR" 4
Default preferences file loaded on startup.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fgfs (1)
