.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Alessandro Menti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" Or try here: http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html
.\"
.TH GPSSMOOTH 1 2017-06-04 FlightGear "FlightGear man pages"
.SH NAME
GPSsmooth \- send NMEA-formatted GPS data to a FlightGear instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBGPSsmooth\fR \fB\-\-help\fR | \fB\-\-file\fR \fIfile_name\fR
[\fB\-\-hertz\fR \fIhertz\fR] [\fB\-\-host\fR \fIhostname\fR]
[\fB\-\-broadcast\fR] [\fB\-\-fdm\-port\fR \fIport\fR] [\fB\-\-ctrls\-port\fR
\fIport\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B GPSsmooth
is a utility that reads a text file containing GPS data in NMEA format, parses
it and sends it to a FlightGear instance for replaying.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-file\fR \fIfile_name\fR
Read GPS data from \fIfile_name\fR. This option is mandatory if \fB\-\-help\fR
is not specified.
.TP
\fB\-\-hertz\fR \fIhertz\fR
Specify the frequency to use for sending data to the FlightGear instance.
By default, events are sent at a frequency of \fB60\fR Hz.
.TP
\fB\-\-host\fR \fIhostname\fR
Send the data to the FlightGear instance running on \fIhostname\fR.

If \fB\-\-host\fR is not specified, the default is to send the data to
\fBlocalhost\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-broadcast\fR
Send flight data model and control data as broadcast packets.
.TP
\fB\-\-fdm\-port\fR \fIport\fR
Set the port flight data model data should be sent to. By default, data is sent
to port \fB5505\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-ctrls\-port\fR \fIport\fR
Set the port control data should be sent to. By default, data is sent to port
\fB5506\fR.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B GPSsmooth
exits with
.B 0
on success, with
.B \-1
if the syntax of the command-line arguments is wrong or an error occurs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fgfs (1),
.BR MIDGsmooth (1),
.BR UGsmooth (1)
