.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Alessandro Menti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" Or try here: http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html
.\"
.TH JSBSIM 1 2017-06-25 FlightGear "FlightGear man pages"
.SH NAME
JSBSim \- standalone version of the JSBSim open source flight dynamics model
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBJSBSim\fR \fI<script filename>\fR \fI<output filenames>\fR \fI<options>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B JSBSim
is a standalone version of the JSBSim open source flight dynamics model
library that, given a script file, runs the simulation and outputs the results
to one or more files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Display the JSBSim version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-outputlogfile=\fIfilename\fR
Output the processed data to \fIfilename\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-logdirectivefile=\fIfilename\fR
Use the data logging directives specified in \fIfilename\fR. This option may be
specified multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-\-root=\fIpath\fR
Use \fIpath\fR as the JSBSim root directory (the directory where the aircraft
model resides, containing the \fBaircraft\fR, \fBengine\fR... subdirectories).
.TP
\fB\-\-aircraft=\fIfilename\fR
Use the aircraft model specified in \fIfilename\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-script=\fIfilename\fR
Run the simulation script specified in \fIfilename\fR.

This option is incompatible with \fB\-\-catalog\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-realtime\fR
Run the simulation in actual real world time.
.TP
\fB\-\-nice\fR[\fB=\fIsleep period\fR]
Reduce CPU usage by pausing the simulation between frames for
\fIsleep period\fR nanoseconds. If \fIsleep period\fR is not given, it is set
to \fB0.01\fR nanoseconds.
.TP
\fB\-\-nohighlight\fR
Do not colorize the output.
.TP
\fB\-\-suspend\fR
Suspend the simulation after initializing it.
.TP
\fB\-\-initfile=\fIfilename\fR
Use the initialization file \fIfilename\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-catalog\fR[\fB=\fIaircraft\fR]
Print all properties for the aircraft model (\fIaircraft\fR, if the model name
is passed as an argument, or for the model loaded via the initialization file).

This option is incompatible with \fB\-\-script\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-property=\fIname\fB=\fIvalue\fR
Set the property named \fIname\fR to \fIvalue\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-simulation\-rate=\fIrate\fR
Set the simulation rate (dT) to \fIrate\fR. If \fIrate\fR is less than \fB1\fR,
it is interpreted as a time step size in seconds; otherwise, it is interpreted
as a rate in Hertz.
.TP
\fB\-\-end=\fItime\fR
Set the simulation end time to \fItime\fR.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B JSBSim
exits with
.B 0
on success, with
.B 1
if the syntax of the command-line arguments is wrong or an error occurs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fgfs (1),
.UR http://\:jsbsim.sourceforge.net/
the JSBSim Web site
.UE
