.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Alessandro Menti
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
.\" Or try here: http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html
.\"
.TH METAR 1 2017-06-25 FlightGear "FlightGear man pages"
.SH NAME
metar \- demo METAR utility for FlightGear
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmetar\fR \fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR | [\fB\-v\fR | \fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-e\fR \fIelevation\fR | \fB\-\-elevation\fR \fIelevation\fR] [\fB\-r\fR |
\fB\-\-report\fR | \fB\-c\fR | \fB\-\-command\-line\fR] \fI<list of ICAO airport
IDs or METAR strings>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B metar
is a demo utility for FlightGear that retrieves a METAR (encoded weather
information) for one or more given airports from the Internet and displays it
in a user-readable form. Optionally, it can also print the command-line
arguments required to start
.BR fgfs (1)
at the current time and with the weather conditions in effect.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Display debugging information while performing the required operation.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIelevation\fR, \fB\-\-elevation\fR \fIelevation\fR
Set the airport elevation to \fIelevation\fR meters.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-report\fR
Print the weather information on the screen in a user-readable form.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-command\-line\fR
Print the command-line arguments required to start FlightGear at the current
time and with the weather conditions in effect.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B metar
exits with
.B 0
on success, with
.B 1
if the syntax of the command-line arguments is wrong or an error occurs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP "\fBHTTP_PROXY\fR" 4
Specifies the HTTP proxy to use. Must be in the form
\fBhttp://host:port/\fR.
.SH EXAMPLE
Print the current weather information for KSFO and KOAK:

    $ \fBmetar KSFO KOAK\fR

Print the current weather information for KSFO, as well as the command line
arguments required to start FlightGear with the weather conditions in effect:

    $ \fBmetar -c KSFO -r KSFO\fR

Print the given METAR string as a user-readable weather report:

    $ \fBmetar "LOWL 161500Z 19004KT 160V240 9999 FEW035 SCT300 29/23 Q1006 NOSIG"\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fgfs (1),
.UR http://\:wiki.flightgear.org/\:Weather_reports
the FlightGear wiki "Weather reports" page
.UE
